LABELS

An information architect can ensure that contextual link labels are
representational by asking herself, "What kind of information will the user
expect to be taken to?" before creating and labeling a contextual link. pag 146


In this case, if more representational navigation system labels had been used
in the first place, they may have diminished the need to devote so much
valuable main page real estate to scope notes. There are alternatives to scope
notes that don't monopolize real estate, such as using JavaScript rollovers and
other scripted mouseover effects to display the scope note, but these aren't an
established convention.

Designing effective labels is perhaps the most difficult aspect of information
architecture. Language is simply too ambiguous for you to ever feel confident
that you've perfected a label. There are always synonyms and homonyms to
worry about, and different contexts influence our understanding of what a
particular term means. But even labeling conventions are questionable: you
absolutely cannot assume that the label "main page" will be correctly
interpreted by 100 percent of your site's users. Your labels will never be
perfect, and you can only hope that your efforts make a difference, as
measuring label effectiveness is an extremely difficult undertaking.

If we focus our sites on a more defined audience, we reduce the number of
possible perspectives on what a label means. Sticking to fewer subject domains
achieves more obvious and effective representation. A narrower business
context means clearer goals for the site, its architecture, and therefore its
labels.

pagina 632


NAVIGATION
preguntas para ver si una navegacion es decente 

1. Ignore the home page and jump directly into the middle of the site.
2. For each random page, can you figure out where you are in relation to the
rest of the site? What major section are you in? What is the parent page?
3. Can you tell where the page will lead you next? Are the links descriptive
enough to give you a clue what each is about? Are the links different
enough to help you choose one over another, depending on what you want
to do?

movimientos laterales o verticales en la jerarquia

From any branch of the hierarchy, it is possible and often
desirable to allow users to move laterally into other branches, to move
vertically from one level to a higher level in that same branch, or to move all
the way back to the main page of the web site.

7.6.4
In its simplest form, a navigation bar is a distinct collection of hypertext links
that connect a series of pages, enabling movement among them.
